Pod disrurption budget

A Pod Disruption Budget (PDB) is a resource policy in Kubernetes that allows you to specify how many replicas of a particular application or service can be simultaneously unavailable due to voluntary disruptions, such as rolling updates or maintenance, while maintaining a certain level of availability. PDBs help ensure that critical applications are not overly disrupted during maintenance or updates, thus minimizing the risk of downtime.

Here are some key points about Pod Disruption Budgets:
Objective: The main goal of a Pod Disruption Budget is to ensure high availability while performing necessary maintenance or updates on nodes or applications within a Kubernetes cluster.
Granularity: PDBs are applied at the Pod level and can be fine-tuned for specific applications or services.
Availability Targets: PDBs allow you to set availability targets, specifying the minimum number of healthy Pods that must be available during disruptions.
Selectors: PDBs use label selectors to target specific Pods. You can create PDBs for different applications or services by selecting Pods based on their labels.
Disruption Budget: The .spec.minAvailable field in a PDB specifies the minimum number of Pods that must be available. You can also use .spec.maxUnavailable to specify the maximum number of Pods that can be unavailable.
Usage: PDBs are often used in conjunction with controllers like Deployments and StatefulSets. They help these controllers orchestrate rolling updates and scaling operations in a controlled manner.
Here's an example of a simple PDB definition in YAML format:

apiVersion: policy/v1
kind: PodDisruptionBudget
metadata:
name: my-app-pdb
spec:
minAvailable: 2
selector:
matchLabels:
app: my-app

In this example:
The PDB is named my-app-pdb.
It specifies that at least 2 Pods with the label app: my-app must be available during disruptions.
By setting up Pod Disruption Budgets effectively, you can ensure that essential applications or services remain available during maintenance, updates, or other planned disruptions while maintaining the desired level of reliability.
